# 20Time-RPGMaker MV-Project
### In this Log there are my own personal logs for the 20Time project, but the full updated repo is at the link below.
### https://github.com/twalt1/Collab-20

##### WEEK 1 - This project will be a collaboration between Anees, Cooper, Carter, and Timothy, in our ICS4U class. As seen on Google Classroom, our goal is to create a smaller version of the popular game, _Binding of Isaac_, which will take lots of time and effort, but we will at least progress, if we do not finish by the end of the semester. Up until this point, I have slowly started to familiarize myself with the tool, Unreal Engine 4, by learning how to sculpt landscapes, and smoothen the rough edges of the untextured entities we created. My prority right now is to continue learning how to use the tool through YouTube video tutorials and from playing around with the tool myself.

##### WEEK 2 - This week, I assisted in the creation of the main character's design. I will try to find a way to upload those designs when they are exported. As a group, we also decided on the plot of the game and the general feel we want the player to get when they play our game, along with some major character details and plot points. Hopefully we can all go our own ways starting this week, as we have all assigned our roles. 

##### WEEK 3 - Unfortunately, this week we didn't get a work period in class due to the Thanksgiving long weekend, so I have not done anything useful individual. As a group however, we have approved of a few pixel arts for characters and monsters in our game, which were made by Carter Grad.

##### WEEK 4 - Sorry for this entry coming in late! Throughout the last week, we have started to re-scale the size of our project. We decided on a few things that would be too difficult for us, and other things that we thinkw e could possibly do. The other thing we have all agreed on is that we do not intend on finishing this project for the 20Time assignment, but instead, we want to get it started and get into it, so that we can use this as a head start for a future project. We also are discussing whether or not we should make the game, now titled 'Outcast', our summative, rather than our 20Time, hence the lack of progress. Hopefully another work period is given soon, so that we can maybe come to a decision as a group, and decide what we're going to do.

##### WEEK 5 and 6 (and 7?) - Entries have been lacking, sorry. Over these weeks there has not been too much project. We have added some character sprites, and some music was made for the opening of the game, but most of the time remaining we would like to focus on learning Unreal Engine 4. Mr. Osudar, you know what our vision is so I will not repeat myself too much, but our goal is still to make a game in the future, but fort his project in specific, we just wantto learn as much as we possibly can!

##### MANY WEEKS LATER (December 14th) - A lot has happened since we last talked. EVERYTHING CHANGED. We decided many weeks ago to switch from the game making software Unreal Engine 4 to the RPG making software RPGMaker MV. The great thing about RPGMaker is that it's much easier to learn, whereas UE4 has a steep learning curve and by the time the semester would've been over we would  have learnt very little. Over the last few weeks, not so much progress was made, but ever since December 9th, everyone in our group has been working very very hard every day (~4 hours per day per person), and we have a lot to show already. In the _Screenshots_ folder and in the README file, you can see a few sneak peeks of the village hun we have created, and the title screen that I spent 3 hours exploring 3rd party plugins to create. I worked a lot on connecting individually created maps so that, just like in most RPGs, you can walk right through a passage or doorway and appear inside the house or in the forest or whatever the map may be. I also watched many Youtube tutorials about small things that could be pretty simple if I explored the program a bit more. We currently we have a somewhat working game that is really smooth and has some great music, and I will continue to actually update this log and our repo so that we have something cool to show on GitHub if we ever complete (or even if we don't complete) this project.

##### MANY WEEKS LATER AGAIN (January 19th) - Hey Mr. O, we finished. After months of work and struggles. We stopped after adding some final touches to the game. The slideshow is complete. 20Time Log, logging out (full marks please).
